---
title: Bueller - Makes Your Gems Cooler
---

# Bueller

Bueller is a tool for creating and maintaining gems. It's meant to be simple and to integrate with [bundler](http://gembundler.com).

## Installation

    $ gem install bueller

## Creating

Creating a gem is simple:

    $ bueller my_gem

This will create a directory called my_gem with a default gem directory structure. By default, you get a lib/ folder, a Rakefile, and everything you need to start TDDing with [RSpec](http://rspec.info).

If you want to use other testing libraries, such as Test::Unit, bacon, etc., just pass a command-line option.

## Maintaining

Updating and releasing gems involves a few repetitive tasks that can be automated. Here's what a typical workflow looks like:

    # make updates to your gem
    $ git add my_changed_file_1 my_changed_file_2
    $ git commit -m "I changed something"
    $ rake version:bump:patch
    $ rake release

What this does is update your gemspec with a new version number, then releases the gem. A release involves pushing your changes to github, then building the gem and pushing it to rubygems.org.

## Hey, this sounds a lot like Jeweler!

You're right! The codebase originated from Jeweler, but I made a few changes:
* You manage your own gemfile. It's no longer defined in the Rakefile. This results in one fewer commit per release and allows you to have a Gemfile that imports requirements from your gemspec (keeping things DRY).
* Some unneeded rake tasks were removed, like:
  * `rake console` - this is better handled by `bundle console`
  * `rake gemspec` - gemspecs are no longer generated by bueller (except on initial gem creation)

## Why do you care about bundler integration?

Bundler is great because it allows for easy collaboration. Let's say Alice creates a gem called `cheshire`. Betty wants to make some fixes to `cheshire`, so she runs:

    $ git clone git://github.com/alice/cheshire.git
    $ bundle && rake

This grabs the gems needed for running and developing `cheshire` and runs unit tests. Super simple!

## More information

Source is hosted at [GitHub](http://github.com/dkastner/bueller)
